README.md, before:

![Doppelganger Banner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mnemosyne-artificial-intelligence/doppelganger/main/banner.png)

# Doppelganger — Browser Automation for Everyone

Doppelganger is a self‑hosted, block-first automation control plane built for teams that want predictable, auditable browser workflows without pushing sensitive data to third‑party SaaS. It bundles a React/Vite frontend, an Express/Playwright backend, helper scripts, and optional CLI tooling so you can sketch blocks, inject JavaScript, rotate proxies, and run everything locally.

![Demo run](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mnemosyne-artificial-intelligence/doppelganger/main/demo-run.gif)

# What You Get

- **Block‑based automation** — build flows with actions like click, type, wait, hover, and execute JavaScript against modern pages.
- **Task API + CLI** — trigger saved tasks via HTTP (`/tasks/:id/api`) or `npx doppelganger` while passing variables and securing runs with the API key you control.
- **Captures & storage** — automatically store screenshots/recordings and cookies; view them in the captures tab, reset storage, or download built assets.
- **Proxy management** — host, rotate, or import HTTP/SOCKS proxies, flag a default, and toggle rotation per task.
- **Security-first** — session authentication, IP allowlists, secret management, and audit trails live entirely inside your environment.

# Architecture Snapshot

1. **Frontend**  
   - Vite with React (TypeScript) drives `/dashboard`, `/tasks`, `/settings`, `/executions`, and `/captures`.
   - The Settings screen is tabbed (`System`, `Data`, `Proxies`) and houses panels for API keys, user agents, layout, storage, and version info.
   - Components call `/api/*` endpoints through the Vite dev proxy (see `vite.config.mts`), sharing `APP_VERSION` via `src/utils/appInfo.ts`.

2. **Backend**  
   - `server.js` (Express) handles auth (`/api/auth`), task metadata, hooks into Playwright, and exposes `/api/settings/*` for runtime configuration.
   - Requirements: Node 18+ (LTS), Playwright bundled via `npm install`.
   - Storage is plain‑file: `data/` for proxies and allowlists, `public/captures` for visuals, `storage_state.json` for cookies.

3. **Scripts & automation**  
   - `scripts/postinstall.js` runs when dependencies install (keep an eye if you customize).
   - `agent.js`, `headful.js`, `scrape.js` expose specialized runners; the CLI binary `bin/cli.js` wires them for `npx doppelganger`.

4. **Code layout highlights**
   - `src/App.tsx` glues together routing, alerts, and the sidebar that links dashboards, tasks, and settings.
   - `src/components` houses reusable panels (API keys, storage, captures, proxies) that map directly to backend endpoints.
   - `server.js` embeds all HTTP handlers in one file; use the `data/` helpers for proxies, API keys, and user agent preferences if you customize behavior.

# Getting Started

## Docker (Recommended)

### Docker Compose (Multi-arch / ARM / Apple Silicon)

The easiest way to run Doppelganger on any architecture (including M1/M2/M3 Macs) is via Docker Compose.

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mnemosyne-artificial-intelligence/doppelganger.git
cd doppelganger
```

2. Start the services:

```bash
docker compose up --build -d
```

This starts the app on `http://localhost:11345` and the VNC viewer on `http://localhost:54311`.

### Docker Run (Standard)

```bash
docker pull mnemosyneai/doppelganger
docker run -d \
  --name doppelganger \
  -p 11345:11345 \
  -p 54311:54311 \
  -e SESSION_SECRET=replace_with_long_random_value \
  -v $(pwd)/data:/app/data \
  -v $(pwd)/public:/app/public \
  -v $(pwd)/storage_state.json:/app/storage_state.json \
  mnemosyneai/doppelganger
```

Visit `http://localhost:11345`. Stop/start with `docker stop/start doppelganger`.

> The first visit loads the login/setup screen. After you create the admin account and sign in, the dashboard replaces the login view and stays visible for as long as the session remains valid; returning users are redirected straight to the dashboard until they explicitly log out or the session expires.

## Local Development (npm)

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

2. Launch backend + frontend:

```bash
npm run server
npm run dev
```

Frontend calls `/api` via the Vite proxy defined in `vite.config.mts`; the backend listens on `process.env.VITE_BACKEND_PORT` (default `11345`).

## Install Release via npm

If you just want to run the packaged release (no source checkout), install the published npm package and run `doppelganger` directly.

```bash
npm install -g @doppelgangerdev/doppelganger
doppelganger
```

Or use `npx`:

```bash
npx @doppelgangerdev/doppelganger
```

If you prefer not to install globally, clone the repo, run `npm install` to pull dependencies, and then run `npx @doppelgangerdev/doppelganger` inside that folder. This ensures `npx` can resolve the package from the local registry/cache while still shipping the same dashboard experience.

Set `SESSION_SECRET` and optionally mount `data/`, `public/`, and `storage_state.json` (match the Docker volume layout). The CLI spins up the same Express/Playwright stack and opens the browser-based dashboard at `http://localhost:11345` unless you override `PORT`.

## Session Secret

Set `SESSION_SECRET` before any run. A quick generator:

```bash
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
```

# Configuration

| Variable | Purpose | Default |
|----------|---------|---------|
| `SESSION_SECRET` | Signs session cookies. Required. | — |
| `ALLOWED_IPS` | Comma list for basic IP allowlisting. | none (open) |
| `TRUST_PROXY` | Honor `X-Forwarded-*` when behind a reverse proxy. | `0` |
| `VITE_DEV_PORT` | Port for front-end dev server. | `5173` |
| `VITE_BACKEND_PORT` | Backend port for proxying + scripts. | `11345` |

Proxy rotation also respects `data/proxies.json` (see below), and `data/allowed_ips.json` works as an alternate allowlist format.

## Advanced Configuration

- `PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH` (or set `PLAYWRIGHT_CHROMIUM_EXECUTABLE_PATH`) when using a shared Playwright installation.
- `NODE_ENV=production` enables the bundled `dist/` client and reduces console verbosity.
- `HOST=0.0.0.0` allows binding beyond localhost inside Docker containers, while `PORT` overrides the Express listen port (defaults to `11345`).
- Set `LOG_LEVEL` to `debug` if you need more Playwright or proxy diagnostics; this can also be a custom wrapper when running `node server.js`.
- **Headful mode:** the headful/visible browser binds to `54311`, so open that port alongside `11345` when running `headful.js` or other headful flows.

# UI Walkthrough

- **Dashboard** — quick stats, recent runs, and a “New Task” entry point (block or agent).
 - **Task Editor** — drag blocks (click, type, wait, scroll, press, JavaScript); toggle “Rotate Proxies”; run/stop tasks; inspect results with pins & logs.
 - **Captures** — review screenshots/recordings stored under `public/captures`; delete individually or refresh.
 - **Executions** — historical runs with detail drill-down and the ability to re-run or download results.
 - **Settings**
  - **System tab**: regenerate or copy API key, select user agent, adjust layout ratio, view/copy version (`VersionPanel`), and clear storage.
  - **Data tab**: manage captures and cookies.
  - **Proxies tab**: add/import proxies, set defaults, toggle rotation, and inspect host vs saved entries.

# CLI & Agent Mode

- Use `npx doppelganger` (or `npm run cli`) to launch the interactive CLI that shows tasks, status, and logs.
- Behind the scenes, `bin/cli.js` can invoke `agent.js`, `headful.js`, or `scrape.js` depending on the runtime mode (`--agent`, `--headful`, `--scrape`).
- Run `node agent.js --help` to see flags like `--task`, `--browser`, or `--version`. These runners share the same settings (API key, proxies, storage) as the web UI.
- When connecting via the API key, prefer `Authorization: Bearer <key>` so reverse proxies can normalize headers; the CLI also accepts a `--api-key` flag for scripted runs.

### Agent capabilities

- Tasks use the JSON schema outlined in `AGENT_SPEC.md`, including mode/modes (`agent`/`block`), wait times, selectors, and stealth flags.
- Support for all action types in the spec (`click`, `type`, `wait`, `press`, `scroll`, `javascript`, `csv`, `hover`, `merge`, `screenshot`, `if/else/end`, loops, `foreach`, `stop`, `set`, `on_error`, `start`), so you can encode complex flows.
- Variable templating ( `{$var}` ), structured conditions, and helper functions such as `exists()`, `text()`, and `block` output ensure reusable, data-driven tasks.
- Extraction scripts run in the browser context after the page renders; you can return JSON/CSV by reading DOM nodes directly as documented in `AGENT_SPEC.md`.

# Proxies

Proxies can be defined via the UI or `data/proxies.json`:

```json
[
  "http://user:pass@proxy1.example.com:8000",
  { "server": "socks5://proxy2.example.com:1080", "label": "data center" }
]
```

- `host` is always available and represents your machine’s default IP.
- Rotation settings (`round-robin` or `random`) live in the Settings screen and persist through the backend endpoints.
- Import/export operations live behind `/api/settings/proxies/import`.

# API Surface

- **Task execution** (`POST /tasks/:id/api`)
  - Headers: `x-api-key` or `Authorization: Bearer <key>`.
  - Body: `{ "variables": { ... } }` to override task variables or provide runtime data.
- **Settings**:
  - `/api/settings/api-key` — GET current, POST regen.
  - `/api/settings/user-agent` — toggle system vs custom list.
  - `/api/settings/proxies*` — GET/POST/PUT/DELETE plus rotation toggles.
- **Clear data**:
  - `POST /api/clear-screenshots` — removes files in `public/captures`.
  - `POST /api/clear-cookies` — deletes `storage_state.json`.

Authentication enforces sessions (`/api/auth/login`, `/api/auth/logout`, `/api/auth/me`); read `server.js` to see the guard/middleware logic.

# Task Scripting Tips

- Use JavaScript blocks to scrape structured data:
  ```js
  return document.querySelectorAll('article').length;
  ```
- Keep CSS selectors narrow; the block-based editor surfaces `#`, `.`, and attribute hints.
- When running headlessly, toggle `headful.js` or `agent.js` depending on whether you need a visible browser for debugging.
- Set `task.variables` via the API to re-use generic workflows across multiple domains.

## Workflow Recipe

1. Design a task in the editor starting with a `goto` block and a `wait` block to give pages time to render.
2. Add conditional `javascript` blocks to test for specific DOM elements; use the retry/timer controls per block.
3. Attach `extract` (JSON output) or `screenshot` actions before submitting so you can inspect results in the Captures tab.
4. Toggle “Rotate Proxies” if you need egress diversity and pick a default proxy on Settings → Proxies.
5. Save the task, pin results you care about, and use the `POST /tasks/:id/api` endpoint with variables like `{"variables":{"query":"books"}}` to run it from automation tools.

# Testing & Validation

- Run `npm run build` before packaging for production; the `dist/` folder contains the compiled assets.
- Backend logging writes to the console; capture output from `server.js` for debugging proxies, authentication, or Playwright failures.
- Playwright logs are visible in the running Node process and under `node_modules/.cache` when using the CLI.

# Troubleshooting

- **“Session expired”** in the UI: confirm `SESSION_SECRET` is consistent and cookies aren’t blocked by your browser.
- **Tasks hang**: ensure the target site isn’t blocking automated browsers; try toggling `headful`/`headless` modes or adding delays.
- **Proxy import fails**: inspect `data/proxies.json` for valid URLs; the backend validates `server` as a string.
- **API key lost**: regenerate from Settings → System tab; the UI copies it automatically.

# Data Lifecycle

- Captures land in `public/captures`; regular cleanups can be scripted via `POST /api/clear-screenshots`.
- Cookies live in `storage_state.json`. Back up this file before clearing cookies via the UI or `/api/clear-cookies`.
- Proxy lists, user-agent preferences, and settings persist under `data/` (look for `proxies.json`, `allowed_ips.json`, etc.) — treat this directory as your config source control.
- Use `Storage` controls in Settings to clear data after experimentation cycles, and keep `layouts` or `version` info tracked via `localStorage` as shown in `src/components/SettingsScreen.tsx`.

# Maintenance

- The project is governed by the **[Notice & Attribution License v1.0](https://github.com/mnemosyne-artificial-intelligence/doppelganger/blob/main/LICENSE)**, which grants royalty-free internal/private rights while requiring notice, attribution, and source delivery when the software is deployed for external end users; hosting it as a competing service is prohibited.
- Keep `data/` and `storage_state.json` backed up if you rely on historical cookies or proxies.
- Release updates by pulling `mnemosyneai/doppelganger` (Docker) or `npm i @doppelgangerdev/doppelganger` (npm). The Settings view always displays the current package version.
- Contributions: follow `.github/` templates, respect `CONTRIBUTING.md`, and run available lint/test scripts if you touch critical areas.

# Roadmap

- [x] **Settings shortcuts** — the System tab already exposes API key regeneration, user agent selection, and layout preferences so operators can tune them without leaving the UI.
- [x] **Storage cleanup** — the Settings data tab lets you clear captures and cookies, and the backend exposes `/api/clear-screenshots` and `/api/clear-cookies`.
- [x] **IP rotation tooling** — build a settings workflow for importing proxies and automatically rotating them.
- [x] **API key workflow** — the API key panel already supports regenerating and copying keys via `/api/settings/api-key`, so secure API access is ready without extra setup.
- [x] **Task proxy rotation toggle** — the “Rotate Proxies” option in each task ties into the Settings rotation controls, enabling rotation per execution.
- [ ] **Action key combos** — add modifier shortcuts (e.g., Ctrl+Click, Shift+Scroll) so tasks can more closely mirror real user interactions.
- [ ] **Click-and-drag block** — add an action that does drag gestures (selecting text, moving items) so tasks can simulate click-and-drag flows.
- [x] **Recording controls** — Task editor now exposes a “Disable automated recording” switch in the general settings panel so workflows can skip video capture on a per-task basis.
- [ ] **File downloads** — add explicit support for agent tasks to download files (PDFs, CSVs, etc.) directly from target pages, then surface those downloads in the UI so users can preview or export them without sifting through captures.
- [x] **Stateless mode** — Tasks now have a “Stateless execution” toggle alongside the recording controls so each run can skip `storage_state.json`, ensuring no cookies or local storage persist between executions for that workflow.
- [ ] **Adblocking filters** — add controls so execution contexts can enable built-in ad/malware filtering (e.g., via hosts file overrides or request blocking) to reduce noise on sensitive sites.
- [ ] **Extraction response mode** — add a Settings switch so users can choose whether the UI returns HTML+data (for debugging) or data-only payloads when extraction scripts run.
- [ ] **Folder organization** — group tasks, assets, and captures into named folders so operators can browse, filter, and download collections per workflow.
- [ ] **Stable capture retention** — add filtering, pinning, and archiving in captures tab so teams can keep compliance records.
- [ ] **Workspace templates** — allow saving and sharing workspace presets (layout + default proxies/agents) so new team members can onboard with pre-configured setups.
- [ ] **Geo-targeted exits** — allow choosing proxy regions for tasks so you can pin the apparent location before running a job.
- [ ] **Complete anti-detection coverage** — follow browserscan.net's anti-detection checklist (fingerprints, headers, fonts, WebRTC, etc.) so automated runs mimic real browsers across task executions.
- [ ] **Session recording redaction** — add toggles to redact sensitive fields (passwords, credit cards) from recordings/logs before storing them.
- [ ] **Two-factor authentication** — add optional TOTP/second-factor support to Settings/Auth so operators can lock down the UI with 2FA.
- [ ] **AI-assisted fixing** — add an “AI auto-fix” helper that suggests layout, selector, and proxy tweaks after failed runs, letting teams approve or discard the proposed changes without switching contexts.
- [ ] **Companion app** — build a lightweight companion app that mirrors critical dashboard notifications (failures, capture completions, proxy issues) so operators can stay informed without opening the full UI.
- [ ] **Community presets hub** — build a marketplace where users can publish task/workspace presets, browse and download others’ submissions, and choose to offer each preset either for free or as a paid template so creators can monetize standalone workflows while keeping the free option available.

# Security Considerations

- Never commit your `SESSION_SECRET`, API keys, or `storage_state.json` into shared repositories.
- Use `ALLOWED_IPS`/`data/allowed_ips.json` to gate the UI when deploying to a network-exposed host.
- Rotate API keys periodically via Settings, and log all automation runs through the Executions tab for audit purposes.
- Playwright runs inside the same Node process; keep dependencies up to date and rebuild `node_modules` after significant OS patches.

# Community & Support

- Report issues or request features via the GitHub repo issue tracker.
- Follow the authors on `https://github.com/mnemosyne-artificial-intelligence` for releases.
- Share automation recipes with other self-hosted users in your org, but respect the license for sharing infrastructure.

Commit message:

Update repo urls and add sponsor section

README.md, after:

![Doppelganger Banner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mnemosynestack/doppelganger/main/banner.png)

# Doppelganger — Browser Automation for Everyone

Doppelganger is a self‑hosted, block-first automation control plane built for teams that want predictable, auditable browser workflows without pushing sensitive data to third‑party SaaS. It bundles a React/Vite frontend, an Express/Playwright backend, helper scripts, and optional CLI tooling so you can sketch blocks, inject JavaScript, rotate proxies, and run everything locally.

![Demo run](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mnemosynestack/doppelganger/main/demo-run.gif)

# What You Get

- **Block‑based automation** — build flows with actions like click, type, wait, hover, and execute JavaScript against modern pages.
- **Task API + CLI** — trigger saved tasks via HTTP (`/tasks/:id/api`) or `npx doppelganger` while passing variables and securing runs with the API key you control.
- **Captures & storage** — automatically store screenshots/recordings and cookies; view them in the captures tab, reset storage, or download built assets.
- **Proxy management** — host, rotate, or import HTTP/SOCKS proxies, flag a default, and toggle rotation per task.
- **Security-first** — session authentication, IP allowlists, secret management, and audit trails live entirely inside your environment.

# Architecture Snapshot

1. **Frontend**  
   - Vite with React (TypeScript) drives `/dashboard`, `/tasks`, `/settings`, `/executions`, and `/captures`.
   - The Settings screen is tabbed (`System`, `Data`, `Proxies`) and houses panels for API keys, user agents, layout, storage, and version info.
   - Components call `/api/*` endpoints through the Vite dev proxy (see `vite.config.mts`), sharing `APP_VERSION` via `src/utils/appInfo.ts`.

2. **Backend**  
   - `server.js` (Express) handles auth (`/api/auth`), task metadata, hooks into Playwright, and exposes `/api/settings/*` for runtime configuration.
   - Requirements: Node 18+ (LTS), Playwright bundled via `npm install`.
   - Storage is plain‑file: `data/` for proxies and allowlists, `public/captures` for visuals, `storage_state.json` for cookies.

3. **Scripts & automation**  
   - `scripts/postinstall.js` runs when dependencies install (keep an eye if you customize).
   - `agent.js`, `headful.js`, `scrape.js` expose specialized runners; the CLI binary `bin/cli.js` wires them for `npx doppelganger`.

4. **Code layout highlights**
   - `src/App.tsx` glues together routing, alerts, and the sidebar that links dashboards, tasks, and settings.
   - `src/components` houses reusable panels (API keys, storage, captures, proxies) that map directly to backend endpoints.
   - `server.js` embeds all HTTP handlers in one file; use the `data/` helpers for proxies, API keys, and user agent preferences if you customize behavior.

# Getting Started

## Docker (Recommended)

### Docker Compose (Multi-arch / ARM / Apple Silicon)

The easiest way to run Doppelganger on any architecture (including M1/M2/M3 Macs) is via Docker Compose.

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mnemosynestack/doppelganger.git
cd doppelganger
```

2. Start the services:

```bash
docker compose up --build -d
```

This starts the app on `http://localhost:11345` and the VNC viewer on `http://localhost:54311`.

### Docker Run (Standard)

```bash
docker pull mnemosyneai/doppelganger
docker run -d \
  --name doppelganger \
  -p 11345:11345 \
  -p 54311:54311 \
  -e SESSION_SECRET=replace_with_long_random_value \
  -v $(pwd)/data:/app/data \
  -v $(pwd)/public:/app/public \
  -v $(pwd)/storage_state.json:/app/storage_state.json \
  mnemosyneai/doppelganger
```

Visit `http://localhost:11345`. Stop/start with `docker stop/start doppelganger`.

> The first visit loads the login/setup screen. After you create the admin account and sign in, the dashboard replaces the login view and stays visible for as long as the session remains valid; returning users are redirected straight to the dashboard until they explicitly log out or the session expires.

## Local Development (npm)

1. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

2. Launch backend + frontend:

```bash
npm run server
npm run dev
```

Frontend calls `/api` via the Vite proxy defined in `vite.config.mts`; the backend listens on `process.env.VITE_BACKEND_PORT` (default `11345`).

## Install Release via npm

If you just want to run the packaged release (no source checkout), install the published npm package and run `doppelganger` directly.

```bash
npm install -g @doppelgangerdev/doppelganger
doppelganger
```

Or use `npx`:

```bash
npx @doppelgangerdev/doppelganger
```

If you prefer not to install globally, clone the repo, run `npm install` to pull dependencies, and then run `npx @doppelgangerdev/doppelganger` inside that folder. This ensures `npx` can resolve the package from the local registry/cache while still shipping the same dashboard experience.

Set `SESSION_SECRET` and optionally mount `data/`, `public/`, and `storage_state.json` (match the Docker volume layout). The CLI spins up the same Express/Playwright stack and opens the browser-based dashboard at `http://localhost:11345` unless you override `PORT`.

## Session Secret

Set `SESSION_SECRET` before any run. A quick generator:

```bash
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
```

# Configuration

| Variable | Purpose | Default |
|----------|---------|---------|
| `SESSION_SECRET` | Signs session cookies. Required. | — |
| `ALLOWED_IPS` | Comma list for basic IP allowlisting. | none (open) |
| `TRUST_PROXY` | Honor `X-Forwarded-*` when behind a reverse proxy. | `0` |
| `VITE_DEV_PORT` | Port for front-end dev server. | `5173` |
| `VITE_BACKEND_PORT` | Backend port for proxying + scripts. | `11345` |

Proxy rotation also respects `data/proxies.json` (see below), and `data/allowed_ips.json` works as an alternate allowlist format.

## Advanced Configuration

- `PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH` (or set `PLAYWRIGHT_CHROMIUM_EXECUTABLE_PATH`) when using a shared Playwright installation.
- `NODE_ENV=production` enables the bundled `dist/` client and reduces console verbosity.
- `HOST=0.0.0.0` allows binding beyond localhost inside Docker containers, while `PORT` overrides the Express listen port (defaults to `11345`).
- Set `LOG_LEVEL` to `debug` if you need more Playwright or proxy diagnostics; this can also be a custom wrapper when running `node server.js`.
- **Headful mode:** the headful/visible browser binds to `54311`, so open that port alongside `11345` when running `headful.js` or other headful flows.

# UI Walkthrough

- **Dashboard** — quick stats, recent runs, and a “New Task” entry point (block or agent).
 - **Task Editor** — drag blocks (click, type, wait, scroll, press, JavaScript); toggle “Rotate Proxies”; run/stop tasks; inspect results with pins & logs.
 - **Captures** — review screenshots/recordings stored under `public/captures`; delete individually or refresh.
 - **Executions** — historical runs with detail drill-down and the ability to re-run or download results.
 - **Settings**
  - **System tab**: regenerate or copy API key, select user agent, adjust layout ratio, view/copy version (`VersionPanel`), and clear storage.
  - **Data tab**: manage captures and cookies.
  - **Proxies tab**: add/import proxies, set defaults, toggle rotation, and inspect host vs saved entries.

# CLI & Agent Mode

- Use `npx doppelganger` (or `npm run cli`) to launch the interactive CLI that shows tasks, status, and logs.
- Behind the scenes, `bin/cli.js` can invoke `agent.js`, `headful.js`, or `scrape.js` depending on the runtime mode (`--agent`, `--headful`, `--scrape`).
- Run `node agent.js --help` to see flags like `--task`, `--browser`, or `--version`. These runners share the same settings (API key, proxies, storage) as the web UI.
- When connecting via the API key, prefer `Authorization: Bearer <key>` so reverse proxies can normalize headers; the CLI also accepts a `--api-key` flag for scripted runs.

### Agent capabilities

- Tasks use the JSON schema outlined in `AGENT_SPEC.md`, including mode/modes (`agent`/`block`), wait times, selectors, and stealth flags.
- Support for all action types in the spec (`click`, `type`, `wait`, `press`, `scroll`, `javascript`, `csv`, `hover`, `merge`, `screenshot`, `if/else/end`, loops, `foreach`, `stop`, `set`, `on_error`, `start`), so you can encode complex flows.
- Variable templating ( `{$var}` ), structured conditions, and helper functions such as `exists()`, `text()`, and `block` output ensure reusable, data-driven tasks.
- Extraction scripts run in the browser context after the page renders; you can return JSON/CSV by reading DOM nodes directly as documented in `AGENT_SPEC.md`.

# Proxies

Proxies can be defined via the UI or `data/proxies.json`:

```json
[
  "http://user:pass@proxy1.example.com:8000",
  { "server": "socks5://proxy2.example.com:1080", "label": "data center" }
]
```

- `host` is always available and represents your machine’s default IP.
- Rotation settings (`round-robin` or `random`) live in the Settings screen and persist through the backend endpoints.
- Import/export operations live behind `/api/settings/proxies/import`.

# API Surface

- **Task execution** (`POST /tasks/:id/api`)
  - Headers: `x-api-key` or `Authorization: Bearer <key>`.
  - Body: `{ "variables": { ... } }` to override task variables or provide runtime data.
- **Settings**:
  - `/api/settings/api-key` — GET current, POST regen.
  - `/api/settings/user-agent` — toggle system vs custom list.
  - `/api/settings/proxies*` — GET/POST/PUT/DELETE plus rotation toggles.
- **Clear data**:
  - `POST /api/clear-screenshots` — removes files in `public/captures`.
  - `POST /api/clear-cookies` — deletes `storage_state.json`.

Authentication enforces sessions (`/api/auth/login`, `/api/auth/logout`, `/api/auth/me`); read `server.js` to see the guard/middleware logic.

# Task Scripting Tips

- Use JavaScript blocks to scrape structured data:
  ```js
  return document.querySelectorAll('article').length;
  ```
- Keep CSS selectors narrow; the block-based editor surfaces `#`, `.`, and attribute hints.
- When running headlessly, toggle `headful.js` or `agent.js` depending on whether you need a visible browser for debugging.
- Set `task.variables` via the API to re-use generic workflows across multiple domains.

## Workflow Recipe

1. Design a task in the editor starting with a `goto` block and a `wait` block to give pages time to render.
2. Add conditional `javascript` blocks to test for specific DOM elements; use the retry/timer controls per block.
3. Attach `extract` (JSON output) or `screenshot` actions before submitting so you can inspect results in the Captures tab.
4. Toggle “Rotate Proxies” if you need egress diversity and pick a default proxy on Settings → Proxies.
5. Save the task, pin results you care about, and use the `POST /tasks/:id/api` endpoint with variables like `{"variables":{"query":"books"}}` to run it from automation tools.

# Testing & Validation

- Run `npm run build` before packaging for production; the `dist/` folder contains the compiled assets.
- Backend logging writes to the console; capture output from `server.js` for debugging proxies, authentication, or Playwright failures.
- Playwright logs are visible in the running Node process and under `node_modules/.cache` when using the CLI.

# Troubleshooting

- **“Session expired”** in the UI: confirm `SESSION_SECRET` is consistent and cookies aren’t blocked by your browser.
- **Tasks hang**: ensure the target site isn’t blocking automated browsers; try toggling `headful`/`headless` modes or adding delays.
- **Proxy import fails**: inspect `data/proxies.json` for valid URLs; the backend validates `server` as a string.
- **API key lost**: regenerate from Settings → System tab; the UI copies it automatically.

# Data Lifecycle

- Captures land in `public/captures`; regular cleanups can be scripted via `POST /api/clear-screenshots`.
- Cookies live in `storage_state.json`. Back up this file before clearing cookies via the UI or `/api/clear-cookies`.
- Proxy lists, user-agent preferences, and settings persist under `data/` (look for `proxies.json`, `allowed_ips.json`, etc.) — treat this directory as your config source control.
- Use `Storage` controls in Settings to clear data after experimentation cycles, and keep `layouts` or `version` info tracked via `localStorage` as shown in `src/components/SettingsScreen.tsx`.

# Maintenance

- The project is governed by the **[Notice & Attribution License v1.0](https://github.com/mnemosynestack/doppelganger/blob/main/LICENSE)**, which grants royalty-free internal/private rights while requiring notice, attribution, and source delivery when the software is deployed for external end users; hosting it as a competing service is prohibited.
- Keep `data/` and `storage_state.json` backed up if you rely on historical cookies or proxies.
- Release updates by pulling `mnemosyneai/doppelganger` (Docker) or `npm i @doppelgangerdev/doppelganger` (npm). The Settings view always displays the current package version.
- Contributions: follow `.github/` templates, respect `CONTRIBUTING.md`, and run available lint/test scripts if you touch critical areas.

# Roadmap

- [x] **Settings shortcuts** — the System tab already exposes API key regeneration, user agent selection, and layout preferences so operators can tune them without leaving the UI.
- [x] **Storage cleanup** — the Settings data tab lets you clear captures and cookies, and the backend exposes `/api/clear-screenshots` and `/api/clear-cookies`.
- [x] **IP rotation tooling** — build a settings workflow for importing proxies and automatically rotating them.
- [x] **API key workflow** — the API key panel already supports regenerating and copying keys via `/api/settings/api-key`, so secure API access is ready without extra setup.
- [x] **Task proxy rotation toggle** — the “Rotate Proxies” option in each task ties into the Settings rotation controls, enabling rotation per execution.
- [ ] **Action key combos** — add modifier shortcuts (e.g., Ctrl+Click, Shift+Scroll) so tasks can more closely mirror real user interactions.
- [ ] **Click-and-drag block** — add an action that does drag gestures (selecting text, moving items) so tasks can simulate click-and-drag flows.
- [x] **Recording controls** — Task editor now exposes a “Disable automated recording” switch in the general settings panel so workflows can skip video capture on a per-task basis.
- [ ] **File downloads** — add explicit support for agent tasks to download files (PDFs, CSVs, etc.) directly from target pages, then surface those downloads in the UI so users can preview or export them without sifting through captures.
- [x] **Stateless mode** — Tasks now have a “Stateless execution” toggle alongside the recording controls so each run can skip `storage_state.json`, ensuring no cookies or local storage persist between executions for that workflow.
- [ ] **Adblocking filters** — add controls so execution contexts can enable built-in ad/malware filtering (e.g., via hosts file overrides or request blocking) to reduce noise on sensitive sites.
- [ ] **Extraction response mode** — add a Settings switch so users can choose whether the UI returns HTML+data (for debugging) or data-only payloads when extraction scripts run.
- [ ] **Folder organization** — group tasks, assets, and captures into named folders so operators can browse, filter, and download collections per workflow.
- [ ] **Stable capture retention** — add filtering, pinning, and archiving in captures tab so teams can keep compliance records.
- [ ] **Workspace templates** — allow saving and sharing workspace presets (layout + default proxies/agents) so new team members can onboard with pre-configured setups.
- [ ] **Geo-targeted exits** — allow choosing proxy regions for tasks so you can pin the apparent location before running a job.
- [ ] **Complete anti-detection coverage** — follow browserscan.net's anti-detection checklist (fingerprints, headers, fonts, WebRTC, etc.) so automated runs mimic real browsers across task executions.
- [ ] **Session recording redaction** — add toggles to redact sensitive fields (passwords, credit cards) from recordings/logs before storing them.
- [ ] **Two-factor authentication** — add optional TOTP/second-factor support to Settings/Auth so operators can lock down the UI with 2FA.
- [ ] **AI-assisted fixing** — add an “AI auto-fix” helper that suggests layout, selector, and proxy tweaks after failed runs, letting teams approve or discard the proposed changes without switching contexts.
- [ ] **Companion app** — build a lightweight companion app that mirrors critical dashboard notifications (failures, capture completions, proxy issues) so operators can stay informed without opening the full UI.
- [ ] **Community presets hub** — build a marketplace where users can publish task/workspace presets, browse and download others’ submissions, and choose to offer each preset either for free or as a paid template so creators can monetize standalone workflows while keeping the free option available.

# Security Considerations

- Never commit your `SESSION_SECRET`, API keys, or `storage_state.json` into shared repositories.
- Use `ALLOWED_IPS`/`data/allowed_ips.json` to gate the UI when deploying to a network-exposed host.
- Rotate API keys periodically via Settings, and log all automation runs through the Executions tab for audit purposes.
- Playwright runs inside the same Node process; keep dependencies up to date and rebuild `node_modules` after significant OS patches.

# Community & Support

- Report issues or request features via the GitHub repo issue tracker.
- Follow the authors on `https://github.com/mnemosynestack` for releases.
- Share automation recipes with other self-hosted users in your org, but respect the license for sharing infrastructure.

# Sponsor

If you find Doppelganger useful, please consider sponsoring. I spend my own money on servers and development to keep this project going.

[Support me on Ko-fi](https://ko-fi.com/asernasr)
